Dhruv/minions groq (#65)
groq/groq-api-cookbook: tutorials/minions-groq/README.md

# Minions with Groq API Cookbook for Multi-Hop Reasoning

## 1. Introduction to Minions

Minions is a framework developed by Stanford's [Hazy Research lab](https://hazyresearch.stanford.edu/blog/2025-02-24-minions) that enables efficient collaboration between small, local models running on your device and large, powerful models running in the cloud. By combining Minions with Groq's fast inference and cost-effectiveness, you get reduced costs, minimal latency, and high-quality results similar to using large models exclusively. We will be exploring Minions in general, and then investigating how it is specifically well-suited for multi-hop question-answering, a challenging type of question where frontier models still struggle.

## 2. Minion and MinionS Protocols

The framework offers two main protocols:

> The Minion Protocol is a single local model chatting with a cloud model to reach a solution, while MinionS is a cloud model decomposing the task into subtasks for parallel processing. While Minion offers slightly lower performance, it is more cost-effective than MinionS. 

Reviewer: The Minion protocol involves a small on-device language model chatting directly with a cloud-based frontier model to solve tasks without sending long documents to the cloud, while the Minions protocol improves on this by having the remote model decompose complex tasks into smaller subtasks that are executed in parallel by the local model before being aggregated by the remote model.
```suggestion
The Minion Protocol is a small, on-device or local model chatting with a cloud-based model to reach a solution without sending long context to the cloud, while the MinionS protocol is a cloud model decomposing the task into smaller subtasks that are executed in parallel by the local model before being aggregated by the local model. While Minion offers slightly lower performance, it is more cost-effective than MinionS. 
```
